[BACK](/topics/topic08/lab08/02.html) [NEXT](/topics/topic08/lab08/04.html)

# 4. Challenge - GymAppV1.0

This exercise will help you become more familiar with the Scanner class as well as working with a two class app.

This console based app will ask the user to enter a GymMembers details.  These details will then be printed back to the console.

During this challenge, you may need to view this weeks and last weeks lecture notes to remind you how to write classes.  The SpotConsoleV1.0 (particularly for validation) and the ShopV1.0 solution will also be useful here.

- In IntelliJ, create a new Java Project called **GymApp1.0**.

- Within this project, create two new Classes; **GymMember** and **Driver**.


## GymMember Class - fields

In the GymMember class, create five private instance fields:

- private String name;
- private double height;
- private double weight;
- private int membershipNumber;
- private boolean isCurrentGymMember;


The default values for these fields are as follows:

- **name** is "unknown"
- **height** is 0.0 (note: this is measured in meters)
- **weight** is 0.0 (note: this is measured in kgs)
- **membershipNumber** is 99999
- **isCurrentGymMember** is false


The validation for these fields is as follows:

- **name** is maximum 30 chars long
- **height** is between 0.5 and 3.0 inclusive
- **weight** is 25 and 600 inclusive
- **membershipNumber** is between 00001 (inclusive) and 99999 (exclusive)
- **isCurrentGymMember** has no validation.

Write a constructor for this class that takes the five instance fields as parameters and updates the object state using these parameters.

Write a getter for each instance field.  

Write a setter for each instance field.

Write a toString method that builds and returns a String comprising a user friendly representation of the object state.


## Driver Class

In the Driver class, create two private instance fields:

- **input** of type Scanner (initialise this field using **new Scanner(System.in)**)
- **gymMember** of type GymMember

Write a method called **addGymMember())** that asks the user to input the gym member details (name, height, weight, membership number and if they are a current member).  Use this data to create a new GymMember object.

Write a method called **printGymMember()** that prints all the **gymMember** details to the console.  

Hint: use the toString() method from the GymMember class.

Write a **main** method that calls the Driver() constructor.

Write a **Driver()** constructor that calls both the **addGymMember())** and **printGymMember()** methods.


## Run the App

Run the app; does all work as expected?  Are you asked to enter the gym members details?  Are all details you entered printed back to the console?  
